# Songs-recommender-system
For this project I used a Spotify dataset from Kaggle. The song recommender system , as the name suggests, gives you top 5 similar songs in the dataset as per the song you have selected 

## Methods used-
For the dataset, I have used a Spotify dataset.Link to the dataset is given below: <br> https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ambaliyagati/spotify-dataset-for-playing-around-with-sql  
Following are the columns in the dataset:
  1. id	name - a unique id for each song
  2. name - name of the song
  3. genre - genre of the song 
  4. artists - artists who have perfoemed in the song
  5. album - name of the album
  6. popularity - a measure which shows out of 100 people, how many liked it
  7. duration_ms - length of the song in milliseconds
  8. explicit - does the song have explicit material or not. <br> <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After reading the csv file into the notebook, I had to do minimal cleaning as there were no duplicates or null data. For the song recommender system, I will be using a method called Bag-of-Word. Vefore explaining what it does , I will say what needs to be done before using this method. This recommender system is also called a "content-based recommedation system". Meaning it recommends the user based on what content he/she uses. Another type of recommendation system is the "collaboration-filtering recommendation system" which basically calculates a similarity score of between every two users. The users with high similarity scores will have similar taste in content. Hence this system recommends those content to such users which are popular among those users who share a high similarity score. This is the reason why many companies ask for feedback for their products, as it serves as input forcalculating your similarity score with other users. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now back to explaing my project. "Content based recommendation" works on similarity of content. Tags are pieces ofinformation which give a brief overview of the content. Using these tags one can compare whether content is similaror not. Basically content -based recommendation is similar to collaboration-filtering recommendation, but in the former, similarity score is calculated for the content. how do we calculate this similarity score? <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;First I had to create tags for the songs.For tags I used the genre, artist name, album and explicit column. Theduration column is not needed as users do not often choose songs based on duration. Also, I had to remove the id column and replace it with the natural index as the id's nomenclature was too difficult to understand. I could have used the popularity column as it is helpful in suggesting songs. However I wanted to try out recommendation based on tags. Will attempt incorporate the "popularity" tag in a later project.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the end I am left with 4 columns - id( natural index), name, tags and artists. Mind the fact that the artist's names are also in tags.The problem is several songs have the same name, so if we encounter such a song we will ask for the artist name andthen later perform recommendation.<br>                                                         &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Once we are done with obtainig the tags, we will vectorize the tags. By vectorize the tags we mean, first put all tags into a common array ( Bag of words) and eliminating all possible stop words (of, for, if, and,or,....). Then select the top "n" frequent words in the bag. In my case it is 2500. Now foe each song we assign a 2500 dimension vector where the ith position holds a number equal to the number of times ith frequent word in the bag is present in the song's tags. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this way we have vectorised all the songs in the dataset. I had to use Count Vectorizer from sklearn to do this task. Say wehave 100 vectors corresponding to 100 songs with the ith vector corresponding to the features of the ith song. Say we choose song number 50. To choose similar songs to song number 50 we need to choose those songs whose vectors are closer to the vector corresponding to song 50. This "closeness" can be determined by the angle between two vectors, i.e smaller the angle between two vectors, the more similar they are. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To measure the angle of the I had to use function cosine_similarity on the vectors column which gave me a n x n matrix , where n corresponds to number of songs where the (i,j)th entry corresponds to the similarity index between the ith and jth song. Now say i choose song number 100. All i have to do this look for 100th row in the matrix. Sort the rowin descending order and give the songs in index 1 to 6 (every song is highly similar to itself). If the song shares the same name with another song it asks for the name of an rtist and then later on recommends similar songs. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I hope this project was knowledgeable to those who have read it. also thank you for reading it till the end.
  </div>
